that's gonna make a real thick batter
for the pancake oh and here's the
pouring
any sentence and she's mixing it in with
santan
eggs and coconut milk wow all right
check it out guys this is trevor james
we just got into
kalan tan this is kota baru and i am so
excited because this is the land
of calantanese cuisine it's a beautiful
city and i'm so excited today
to bring you for a full on street food
adventure
and you guys are going to want to watch
this whole video all the way until the
end because
it's going to be a full-on kalantanese
food adventure
and it feels so good to be here let's go
guys
[Music]
this is it part seven of seven of our
ultimate east coast malaysia road trip
and today we're bringing you into the
pinnacle of our journey
for a full-on calantanese street food
tour bringing you for four insanely
delicious street foods
including one of the most unique street
pancakes
and a giant conical stuffed banana leaf
that you're gonna love let's eat we are
just
cruising through kotabaru and we saw
this smoke
and look at this i think this is nasi
kerabu this is the iconic dish
of kotaparu and here we are guys this is
kotabaru
and to start this calantanese food
adventure we were just driving through
town
and saw one of the ultimate foods to try
in kotabaru
nasi karabu and look at this i am bakar
hi boss
salamat peggy
i am the car
wow so we've got grilled chicken and
beef
yes
yes fermented anchovy paste and that's
the sauce
it's right that's the lemongrass oh
turmeric oh my goodness taramakasi
okay we're gonna go try it out and let's
go try out this nasi kerabu look at how
busy this spot is guys
and just look at this line up for the
nasi kerabu
the ultimate specialty from kalantan
here in kotabaru and
we're gonna watch the scooping and the
mixing of the curries and it's topped
with a beautiful local
salad let's try it out guys
home then down tonight and just check
this out guys this has to be one of the
most unique
salad stations that goes with the nasi
kerabu
so she's chopping the down sam
and salayaka which is indonesian bay
leaves and
laksa leaves or vietnamese mint and then
it just goes right in there and it's
added on top of the rice
and there it comes look at that
beautiful sang itself
yeah oh and here's the i am the car
look at that wow with the lemongrass
peggy and here we are at the front of
the line
and that is where it's all going to
start here the blue rice cooked
with the butterfly pea and then it's
topped with all of these special curries
and you can see it's bunker style they
wrap it up that's blue oh and a pandan
is in there
oh that's the coconut and then samba
to miss and then voodoo that's the
fermented anchovy
and more sambal ulam
that's the ultimate salad and then ayam
bakar taramakasi
oh and then a fish cracker tara mckessie
wow and it looks like a flower vase like
you could give that as a gift to your
partner
let's go try it out jeremy cassie oh and
the chicken just comes out
beautiful and here we are we've got our
nasi
kerabu let's sit down and try and here
it is guys this is the iconic moment
of our trip this is the first and most
special meal
in kota baru look at this that's the
nasi kerabu the blue rice
cooked with that pandan and kaffir lime
leaf and then we've got some very
special
additions here this is the salad the
ulam they put on top
there's bean sprouts there's coriander
and i think there's some vietnamese mint
in there as well
and then you can see the mixture of
sambals they put in there one of them is
the iconic
sambal tumis which is a sweet and spicy
and sour malaysian sambal it's made with
garlic and shallot and pungent
shrimp paste balachan and then look at
this this is the kalapa goreng
grated coconut flakes fried and mixed
with ikan salayang
sardines and then let's just mix it all
up make sure all of that salad is
really nice in there here's a fish
cracker that's also
ikan keropak and then of course we've
got this ayambakar
lemongrass grilled chicken but first up
let's just take a nice bite let's try it
out guys
[Music]
oh wow that is a life-changing bite of
rice right there
it's a full-on rice salad with spicy
sambals when you can taste the mint the
lemongrass
you can taste after your lime leaves it
is so tropical
you can taste the pandan cooked in the
rice and it is so fragrant
and then look at the chicken it's
actually you can see covered in that
down syrah caillou which is an
indonesian bay leaf let's go ahead for
that chicken
oh it's sweet oh my overall this is an
incredible
meal the chicken is sweet full of
lemongrass smoky
thank you so nice
let's keep going guys this is kotabaru
kalantan
and next up we're bringing you into the
heart of the city
to a local market and finding a very
unique and delicious
local laksam dish in a giant street food
market
serving tons of delicacies let's
eat awesome guys and next
up we've made our way to the local
market the main market in the town
and we're gonna see what we can find the
markets always have lots of life and
food and
let's go see what we can get look at all
these tropical ingredients
and we're just exploring right now and
we're gonna make our way up i think
there is a food
section on the second floor wow
looks great and look at this guys this
is the
laksam rice noodle rolls you can buy
these bulk and then eat them with your
laksa
oh i think this is something here look
at this guys i think we just found the
laksa hot spot
there's the white and the red taranganu
laksa salama
oh laksa
and we just found the coolest laksa bar
here guys you order
you sit down you can get the red or the
white laksa and kaka in the back here
she's just preparing the white laksa and
she's invited us in
to go take a look and this is just
amazing guys kaka is making
the white laksa right here oh my
goodness and this is uh kalantan
laksam
[Applause]
oh wow sardine this is amazing
and she is just straining out that
sardine and there it goes look at that
right in the pot that's the sardine
and she's gonna boil that down and then
add santan coconut milk
oh and there it goes that's the santan
so the white laksa the talent and laksa
has the santan wires the red one doesn't
look at that
that's the soul of malaysia coconut milk
oh
and you can see all the spices in there
that's a sardine broth and then she was
just explaining the bunker
the torch ginger flower and the down
kasam
vietnamese mint or laksa leaves
tiramisu yeah and then let's order one
up
uh satu laksam
and this is the laksam look at that
she's adding in the white rice noodle
rolls
and then the veg cucumber bean sprouts
there's vietnamese
mint wow and cucumber and then here it
goes
wow
[Music]
we're gonna get a red and a white and
here it goes look at this
look at the full-on salad cucumber lemon
lime there's greens there's lettuce in
there spoiled egg
and then here comes the penang red laksa
but this is kalantan style
oh wow taramakasikaka
wow and there it is this is the soul of
kalantan here look at this we got the
white laksa and she's added in
beautiful laksam rice noodle rolls
tons of donkeys on vietnamese coriander
and there is
sambal in there as well and then we've
got the pinang laksa and both of these
are made
with the ikan the sardine broth
and i can't believe it but they brought
us a sample and
huge chunk of balachan look at that that
is dried shrimp paste
seek it yeah okay we'll add a little you
just told me to add a little that's a
belachan shrimp oh my goodness extreme
spicy
shrimp paste mixed with chili let's try
it out guys
oh my goodness it is so rich with that
sardine broth and creamy from coconut
milk
and spicy from the chili paste i added
in there and it's just addictively
satisfying
let's go on for this red one and look at
this she's giving me
all of the extreme sardine remains from
the bottom
and there's a lime in there as well
let's just squeeze that in
and this here they call the penang laksa
but i think it's going to have
definitely some kalantan
infusion in it they say they use less
tamarind here so it's less sour
and it's more smooth than the penang
version
let's try it out
wow oh my this is richer spicier
heavier and the ikan sardine flavor is
also
much stronger addictively good and for
me it's all about
those herbs the lettuce the vietnamese
mint and the bean sprouts wow
give it a really nice freshness what do
you think ting
it's really good right oh and you love
the chili and you can see the locals
love it
sang it up
people are so friendly thank you sarah
mckessie
thank you and next up we're bringing you
into one of the most delicious
egg pancake combos in the world
right on the side of the street you need
to see this
we are off guys back on the road look at
how beautiful this is here
we are on the road looking for more
street food and i think right up ahead
is a famous accoc pancake it's a
calantenes pancake dish
and it should just be right up here and
here we are i think we just found the
accok guys look at this
this is the shop oh let's park and eat
this is the oh the kotabaru the
kalanthini is a
james dan awak
and your father opened the shop yeah
1971.
outside 1979. oh wow
okay and we just got invited in
oh this is the accoc station and we just
got invited into the back to see how
they make
the akok flour oh
oh my goodness and look at that that's
the biggest egg whisker i've ever seen
that's gonna make a real thick batter
oh and here's the pouring any sentence
oh yeah and she's mixing it in with
santan eggs and coconut milk
wow and then she's just gonna be adding
in flour
to this santan gula melaka mixture
oh and here's the gula melaka oh my
goodness
at a pendant oh my goodness
this is where the flavor comes from and
you can smell they've added in
pandan in there vanilla malaysian pandan
leaves
and there it is and this is the moment
we've been waiting
for chef faisal is going to start making
the akak
and you can see he's just loading the
coals right down in here
and there's these custom akok fluffy
pancake
molds here there it goes that's the
batter
and here we go chef faisal is just
starting wow
via so cool thank you chef faisal
for letting us see this the kalantani's
a
pancake okay and here come the lids
it's loaded with coal you can see
they're just burning hot
they just go right on top and that's
gonna cook it from the bottom
and the top you can see there's a double
layer of coals there
and that's it chef faisal just laid down
all of the coals on top we've got about
10 whole molds of a caulk being made
here
and then he's going to lift them up and
it's going to be the most fluffy
delicious pancake
wow they're so golden brown
it smells like a caramel fluffy pancake
and there they are just look at this
full line of a
that's the kalantanese akok and look at
this as soon as one batch is finished
another goes in it's never ending we got
two
going on here it sounds really nice
yeah i can't wait and you can see the
locals love it they just come up
drive their car and get some of the
accok and we're definitely gonna have to
buy
a bunch
[Music]
okay let's get six tiramisi
oh my look at that wow and there it is
guys the
so infused with coconut milk and
pandan
and that is going to be unique now i'm
packs it up
let's try it out
wow it's like an egg pancake it's almost
more eggs than flour it's so
fluffy with those eggs and the santa and
the coconut milk combined with that
local
malaysian pandan leaf it really is a
whole new level
of aroma of sweetness that i don't think
exists anywhere else
except malaysia
[Applause]
[Music]
we've been on this road trip for about
two weeks now and almost nobody is
taking our money and we insist
and it's just amazing hospitality here
in malaysia
tara mcassie thank you so much so
delicious
via number one
thank you chef see you next time
thank you we're going to keep going guys
terengganu and kalantan amazing places
bye-bye thank you and to finish up our
full-on tour of kalantan we're bringing
you
in for a classic calantanese street food
feast the nasi tum pang a stuffed
conical banana leaf you need to eat
let's go try it out
and here we are guys just look at how
beautiful this is to finish off the
night we're driving deep into the
kampung
village and we're going to finish up
with a classic malaysian
calentine's street food the nasi tum
pong it's a banana leaf filled with
curry and
actually we're going to see what's
inside because we've never tried and
oh yeah it's gonna be good and there's
cows in here too
look at that wow and i think this
is it here guys local kampong house
beautiful
hello
and look at this guys it's a
never-ending banana leaf
wrapping festival here they're just
peeling them and then these are going to
get brought inside and wrapped up in a
cone and stopped
we just got invited into this home it's
a home kitchen
wow and look at this so this is the nasi
pang wow and it's the cone can you put
the nasi
imp inside namaste james
then awok
nice to meet you and it all starts here
down
so the banana leaf and it's going to be
filled with the nasi impet compressed
rice
and then a fish floss the ikan serum
thing oh and and some udang and
she's going to teach me how to do this
here
it's actually harder than it looks there
we go i think i'm getting it
and there it is there it is i think i
did it there my cassie and there's
banyak down fisang
set the empire so they make this every
day
and i'm excited to see what goes inside
okay
and farida is going to be making i am
going here
wow and look at this guys first we're
going to watch the frying of the chicken
and the ikan but here she's going to
cover it in a masak mira
a red spicy chili sauce after and then
wrap it in that banana leaf
and this is marinated in turmeric and
salt
beautiful and here's the ikan goring
okay and this is the nasi that's the
input i think this is going to take
about three hours to make we're going to
watch as this rice gets compressed down
wow and this is for the two miss so it's
onion shallot and garlic
and take a look at this this is for the
sambal
to miss which is going to be a spicy
sambal it's got onions
shallot and garlic and we're going to
see what else they put in there oh
and look at this there is a lot going in
here
today chili powder there's fresh chilies
that have been blended up and there's
all the garlic shallots and onions as
well
and then here comes the sugar
kelantanese food is classically sweet
and you can tell by the amount of sugar
that they add into their samples this is
the samotoumis and you can see
we're on the second bag now of sugar
boom that's a lot but it's delicious and
it's addictive you can't get enough of
it oh yeah
and people are just so friendly here
look at this
ajinomoto little msg in there
and tons more garlic and shallots and
onions
and just look how strong and red it
looks and she's adding in more
chili tons of chili here
that is going to be a delicious coating
on the chicken
on the udon the prawns and the ikan the
tuna
it's beautiful she's just adding it in
to the wok here
i'm gonna add it to the ayam goreng wow
oh and here's the ayam goreng wow
look at that that is one of the most
beautiful smells i think i've ever
smelled
it smells so aromatic just slightly
spicy
oh and more gula
and just look at how it's condensing
there it's caramelizing
and they've added gula sugar they've
added a little salt
that is gonna be really nice oh and
they're adding the prawns in
the udon and even more prawns
look at that banyak oh
there they are that's a full
giant walk of sambal and prawns
and even it's so full they just keep
adding bronzing vaniac look at how thick
that is full of prawns
local prawns straight from the ocean
oh generation three generations
three generations wow of family history
here
your mama grandfather grandpa
hey grandpa grandpa
three generations of history here
and look this is the ikan so all of
these dishes are using the same
sample combination we've got the ikan
we've got the udang the prawns and then
we've got the chicken
but the juices from each one are gonna
change the flavor
and we're about to witness one of the
most unique combinations chef just told
us
that they're gonna be adding all of
these giant egg pancakes
okay and we are here guys it's all gonna
happen now the slicing of the eggs whoa
that's a big mountain of egg pancakes
okay and here we go look at that oh
banyak tellur those are like egg
pancakes
and i think that's a true calantinis
special never imagined that to go
together
fluffy egg pancakes and prawn sambal
wow and the final touch gula
even more gula and chef has just added
another layer
of gula and there it is suit us up
beautiful okay guys and take a look at
this
we are doing the final step which is to
take the down pisang
and put them on the flame and the salai
to get the aroma
out of the banana leaf and to go into
the rice
and it's also to make it firm so it
won't break and there they go
beautiful you can smell that banana leaf
aroma
it bounce it up and there we go suit us
yeah
that's the compressed rice nasi impetus
can already eat and here comes the nasi
impit
giant pot of compressed rice okay
and here's the sambal samba udang with
tallur
wow and this is the nasi input
compressed rice and farida is gonna show
us
how it's done and that's the rice that's
the nasty input
that's the compressed rice and then i
take a little here right
and then put in like this deep all the
way
and then squeeze okay i think i got it
and then push down
push down okay and then just add some
you can okay right in
one two okay one more rice
and then right in and then put the
sample
oh and the egg mmm
thermakessie and then just finish with
some nasty
some of that pressed rice and then press
it in
and then press on your knee and there it
is that's the that's the finished
product
and we're going to go try it out tara
mccasey
oh super special tara mcginsey
wow oh my goodness this is so magic
oh i can't wait to see what it looks
like wow
oh my goodness look at that it's all a
one big cone
it looks amazing wow
and just look at how beautiful this is
guys this is the nasi tum pang
and you can see the compressed rice
there's a little bit of fish floss in
there
and it's a perfect cone look at that the
rice compresses so well and then mix it
with that sambal udang so it's going to
be sweet we saw them put quite a bit of
sugar in there
and this is the super special you can
see there's the chicken sambal
there's the prawn sambal with the egg
and then there's this fish floss as well
and
there's a piece of tuna too in there
let's just mix it all up get that flavor
in
and there's the tail look at that and
there it is perfect mix we got a prawn
we got egg we got the rice and let's try
it out here we go
[Music]
wow that is so delicious
sweet spicy quite rich and heavy
and the rice is very nice as well it
just complements it so well there's a
really nice texture to it
that's it guys another wonderful day on
our road trip this is the last video
i hope you enjoyed it the food has been
amazing and we are going to continue
traveling and creating more content for
you
in our next series which we're going to
keep traveling around malaysia for
hope you enjoyed these videos and yeah
it's been a pleasure guys please leave
us a comment down below
thank you thanks a lot